README.md, before:

# Instant MongoDB sharded cluster
This repository provides a Vagrantfile, Dockerfile and a bootstrap script to create MongoDB Cluster using a virtual machine built on Virtualbox software hypervisor. After setup is complete shared MongoDB sharded cluster on a single virtual machine running on your local machine.

MongoDB cluster consisted of the following docker containers

 - **mongos1-3r1-3**: Mongod server with three replica sets distributes on six mongo containers. 
 - **configservers1-3**: Stores metadata for sharded cluster distributed on three mongo containers.
 - **mongos1**:	Mongo routing service installed on one mongo container.
 - **skydock**:	Used for service discovery and inserts internal docker images records into skydns.
 - **skydns**: Used as internal DNS for containers.

There unfortunately some hard-coded timeouts due to timing issues with MongoDB. 

## Installation:

### Linux
Install Virtualbox based off the [installation instructions](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Linux_Downloads).

### MacOS

#### Install Homebrew
First, install [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/).

	ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.github.com/mxcl/homebrew/go)"

#### Install Virtualbox and Vagrant
Install VirtualBox and Vagrant using [Brew Cask](https://github.com/phinze/homebrew-cask).

	brew tap phinze/homebrew-cask
	brew install brew-cask
	brew cask install virtualbox
	brew cask install vagrant

## Check out the repository

	git clone git@github.com:jacksoncage/mongo-docker.git
	cd mongo-docker
	vagrant up

## Setup Cluster
This will pull all the images from [Docker index](https://index.docker.io/u/jacksoncage/mongo/) and setup Mongodb sharded cluster.

	vagrant ssh
	./docker/start_cluster.sh"

You should now be able connect to mongos1 and the new sharded cluster:

	MongoDB Cluster is now ready to use
	Connect to cluster by:
	$ mongo --port 49550


## Kill/restart cluster
To re-initiate cluster run `start_cluster.sh` again. To rebuild vagrant `vagrant destroy` and then `vagrant up` 


## Persistent storage
Data is stored at `./docker_mongodb_cluster/mongodata/` and are excluded from version control. Data will be persistent even for a `vagrant destroy` as it's mounted into vagrant and then needed container as well. To remove all data `rm -rf ./docker_mongodb_cluster/mongodata/*`


## Built upon
 - [MongoDB Sharded Cluster by Sebastian Voss](https://github.com/sebastianvoss/docker)
 - [MongoDB](http://www.mongodb.org/)
 - [Skydock](https://github.com/crosbymichael/skydock)
 - [Skydns](https://github.com/skynetservices/skydns)
 - [Docker](https://github.com/dotcloud/docker/)

Commit message:

Added more comments to readme regarding shard folders and default dockerip

README.md, after:

# Instant MongoDB sharded cluster
This repository provides a Vagrantfile, Dockerfile and a bootstrap script to create MongoDB Cluster using a virtual machine built on Virtualbox software hypervisor. After setup is complete shared MongoDB sharded cluster on a single virtual machine running on your local machine.

MongoDB cluster consisted of the following docker containers

 - **mongos1-3r1-3**: Mongod server with three replica sets distributes on six mongo containers.
 - **configservers1-3**: Stores metadata for sharded cluster distributed on three mongo containers.
 - **mongos1**:	Mongo routing service installed on one mongo container.
 - **skydock**:	Used for service discovery and inserts internal docker images records into skydns.
 - **skydns**: Used as internal DNS for containers.

There unfortunately some hard-coded timeouts due to timing issues with MongoDB.

## Installation:

### Linux
Install Virtualbox based off the [installation instructions](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Linux_Downloads).

### MacOS

#### Install Homebrew
First, install [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/).

	ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.github.com/mxcl/homebrew/go)"

#### Install Virtualbox and Vagrant
Install VirtualBox and Vagrant using [Brew Cask](https://github.com/phinze/homebrew-cask).

	brew tap phinze/homebrew-cask
	brew install brew-cask
	brew cask install virtualbox
	brew cask install vagrant

## Check out the repository

	git clone git@github.com:jacksoncage/mongo-docker.git
	cd mongo-docker
	vagrant up

## Setup Cluster
This will pull all the images from [Docker index](https://index.docker.io/u/jacksoncage/mongo/) and setup Mongodb sharded cluster. Please make sure `DOCKERIP` in `docker_mongodb_cluster/start_cluster.sh` is using docker0 interface or public IP if you prefere that.

	vagrant ssh
	./docker/start_cluster.sh"

You should now be able connect to mongos1 and the new sharded cluster:

	MongoDB Cluster is now ready to use
	Connect to cluster by:
	$ mongo --port 49550


## Kill/restart cluster
To re-initiate cluster run `start_cluster.sh` again. To rebuild vagrant `vagrant destroy` and then `vagrant up`


## Persistent storage
Data is stored at `./docker_mongodb_cluster/mongodata/` and are excluded from version control. Data will be persistent even for a `vagrant destroy` as it's mounted into vagrant and then needed container as well. To remove all data `rm -rf ./docker_mongodb_cluster/mongodata/*`

## Issues
 - **Shard folders** - shared folder may not work at some system with certain vagrant and virtualbox version (this issue is not fixed until now ), so users may need to use some other ways to upload .sh and .js files in `docker_mongodb_cluster/mongo/js`


## Built upon
 - [MongoDB Sharded Cluster by Sebastian Voss](https://github.com/sebastianvoss/docker)
 - [MongoDB](http://www.mongodb.org/)
 - [Skydock](https://github.com/crosbymichael/skydock)
 - [Skydns](https://github.com/skynetservices/skydns)
 - [Docker](https://github.com/dotcloud/docker/)
